# grade-calculator

## Functionality

This calculator features two current formats of grade systems:
- Points in separate weighted categories
- Points within one huge category

Once the information regarding the class has been entered, various arithmetic can be applied to find other data related to it.

## Requirements

- Python 3.6+
- Beautiful Soup (4) (For HTML parsing)
- tkfilebrowser (for graphical file selection)
- tk (for graphical file selection)
- pypiwin32 (Windows only; for graphical file selection)


## class Class

This script features the class named `Class`, short for classroom (not confusing at all). Some attributes used are as follows:

### category_achieved

- Type: array of floats
- Only used with categorized classes.
- Similar to points_achieved, however has multiple values, one for each category. The number of values in this array must match `category_name`.

### category_name

- Type: array of strings
- Only used with categorized classes.
- An array of all category names. This array is used by the script to determine the number of categories.

### category_total

- Type: array of floats
- Only used with categorized classes.
- Similar to points_total, however has multiple values, one for each category. The number of values in this array must match `category_name`.

### category_weight

- Type: array of floats
- Possible values: `0` to `100`
- Only used with categorized classes.
- An array of the weight values from each category. Defined in percent. The number of values in this array must match `category_name`.

### class_average

- Type: float
- Generated by `get_class_average(self)`. This is created already as a percent value, so `1` would mean `1%`, not `100%`.

### is_html

- Type: int
- Possible values: `0` or `1`
- Simply states whether the class was generated from html source code or not. As of now, not used anywhere in the code.

### points_achieved

- Type: float
- Only used with uncategorized classes.
- Defines the number of points earned from all assignments.

### points_total

- Type: float
- Only used with uncategorized classes.
- Defines the number of points possible from all assignments.

### type

- Type: string
- Possible values: `"uncategorized"`, `"categorized"`
- Defined with `__init__(self, type)`.
- Determines which functions to use to calculate data.

### get\_class\_average(self)

- Calculates the class average given `points_achieved` and `points_total` for uncategorized classes, or `category_weight`, `category_achieved`, and `category_total` for categorized classes.
